XSOAR CI/CD Article (#882)
demisto/content-docs: content-repo/extra-docs/articles/CI-CD-Article.md

The CI/CD process involves the following stages:
- [Development](#development)
- [Testing/staging](#testingstaging)
- [Depoloyment](#deployment)

For general information about the CI/CD process, see [CI/CD FAQs](#cicd-faqs).

 ### Development
 
 In the development stage, [set up the CI/CD process](#setup-the-cicd-development-process) by creating or cloning a Git repository based on the [CI/CD template repository](https://github.com/demisto/content-ci-cd-template). You can then create and maintain your custom content with the built-in functionality of [demisto-sdk](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/concepts/demisto-sdk). The CI/CD process uses `demisto-sdk` to develop and deploy custom content packs. It downloads, uploads, validates, creates content, migrates content from a Cortex XSOAR server, etc. It also supports content pack structure generation, auto validation of custom content including running linters on the code, and generation of content pack documentation, etc. For a full list of features, commands, and arguments, see [demisto-sdk-commands](https://github.com/demisto/demisto-sdk#commands).

>  **NOTE**: Playbook development is undertaken on the Cortex XSOAR server, which you can download to your machine.

Author: Please remove.

- Control both custom and out-of-the-box content packs deployment into production.
- Deploy via an artifact server or directly to the Cortex XSOAR production server.

By default, deployment occurs when content is pushed from a branch repository to a master repository. Before deployment, you need to consider whether to deploy via an artifact server.

 
 ### Artifact Server

An artifact server such as Google Cloud Services, enables you to  maintain and control version deployment and rollbacks, so you can keep track of your work. Each content pack version is saved in separate folders in the artifact server. You can use the [XSOAR CI/CD](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/packs/content-management) Content Pack, to fetch the content from the artifact server to the Cortex XSOAR server. The content pack enables you to monitor, install content packs via a Playbook, incident type, etc. 

![artifacts_server.png](../../../docs/doc_imgs/reference/XSOAR-CICD/artifacts_server.png)

 **NOTE**: For Multi-tenant you cannot run the playbook in the XSOAR CI/CD Content Pack, as its not possible to create incidents or playbooks on the Main account. You can do one of the following:

>  - Upload the content via the CI/CD Build (it may still support the version control if you store all the versions locally. If using an artifact server, contact Customer support to upload via URL).

Author: ```suggestion
 - Upload the content via the CI/CD Build (Ref tp the relevant paragraph).
```

   <br/> Update the bucket name, main bucket path and format file before pushing any content from your Git repository. The artifact server is based on Google Cloud Storage. <br/> If using a different storage provider, you need to update the `bucket_upload.py` file with the required artifact server information. Contact Customer Support if you need to change this.
    
3. **Configure the `xsoar_config.json` file.**
    
    The `xsoar_config.json` file defines how content packs, lists, and jobs are set up on the production machine. It consists of the following sections:
    
    | Content | Description |
    | ------- | ----------- | 
    |`custom_packs`| Custom content packs, which are installed through the build process.|
    | `marketplace_packs` |Marketplace packs to be installed on the machine.|
    | `lists`| Lists that are created in the machine.|
    | `jobs` | Jobs that are created in the machine.|

    3.1 **Update the ID and URLs for each custom content pack.**
    
    For a non-artifact server, change the `URL` to the name of the Pack in the following format (using a local URL):
     `"Url": "Packs\name of the pack\.zip”` 

>      <br/> **NOTE:** If you want to change the version you need to change it in the branch repository and not in this file.

Author: Please elaborate that this is refer to the non-artifacts - version control.

   
   The content is uploaded to the artifacts server or directly to the machine.
 If using an artifact server, open the folder in the artifact server. The hierarchy should appear similar to this:
 
 ````
    ├── builds
    │   ├── branch-name
    │   │   ├── packs
    │   │   │   ├── pack1
    │   │   │   │   ├── 1.0.0
    │   │   │   │   │   ├── pack1.zip
    │   │   │   ├── pack2
    │   │   │   │   ├── 1.0.1
    │   │   │   │   │   ├── pack2.zip
    │   │   │   ├── 
    │   ├── 
    ├── production
    │   ├── packs
    │   │   ├── pack1
    │   │   │   ├── 1.0.0
    │   │   │   │   │   ├── pack1.zip
    │   │   │   ├── 1.0.1
    │   │   │   │   │   ├── pack1.zip
    │   │   │   ├── 1.1.0
    │   │   │   │   │   ├── pack1.zip
    │   │   │   ├── 
    │   │   ├── pack2
    │   │   │   ├── 1.0.0
    │   │   │   │   │   ├── pack2.zip
    │   │   │   ├── 1.0.1
    │   │   │   │   │   ├── pack2.zip
    │   │   │   ├── 1.0.2
    │   │   │   │   │   ├── pack2.zip
    │   │   │   ├── 
    │   │   ├──

 ````

6. **(Non-artifact server) Install the content to Cortex XSOAR**.
<br/> In Cortex XSOAR go to Marketplace and install the custom content packs. 

> Ensure that the server configuration (Settings>ABOUT>Troubleshooting)  `content.pack.verify` is set to `false` (enables you to import custom Content Packs that are not provided by Cortex XSOAR). 

Author: 1. In the non-artifacts-server option after the upload the packs already appear in the Installed Packs in the marketplace.
2. We don't need to configure the key `content.pack.verify` - its append automatically when using the demisto SDK Upload command.

7. **(Artifact Server) Add the content to Cortex XSOAR.**
   You can either use the [XSOAR CI/CD Content Pack](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/packs/content-management) or download content manually. If using Google Cloud Services, download the [Google Cloud Storage Content Pack](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/integrations/google-cloud-storage) and set up the integration instance. If using another storage application you need to download the appropriate Content Pack such as AWS. 
   - Download the [XSOAR CI/CD Content Pack](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/packs/content-management).

>    The Content Pack includes the Configuration Setup playbook, the configuration setup layout, incident fields,  automations, etc. The playbook runs via a job every 3 hours. The playbook fetches the configuration file and loads the contents to the machine. It downloads, and installs the custom content packs and configures lists and jobs if part of the content packs.

Author: ```suggestion
   The Content Pack includes the Configuration Setup playbook, the configuration setup layout, incident fields,  automations, etc. The playbook can run via a job or manually. The playbook fetches the configuration file and loads the contents to the machine. It downloads, and installs the custom content packs and configures lists and jobs if part of the content packs.
```
